hi everybody so today I'm going to be
doing the video about my top tips for
making a successful application to
Oxbridge I am off to Cambridge in two
weeks time to start natural sciences
while my application is fresh in my mind
I thought I'd share some advice of some
of my experiences with future applicants
tip number one choose what subject you
would like to do a degree in before
choosing Oxbridge make sure the subject
genuinely interests you you'd be happy
to do it for three years minimum
if Oxbridge offer the subject you would
like to do a degree in receiving your
application keep going if they don't
offer it leave now please don't just
apply to Oxbridge because of their
reputation it's stupid there's so many
good other you knees that or offer your
subject or do a degree it's more suited
to you Oxbridge don't have every subject
to offer no uni can really don't make
sacrifices just because it's Oxbridge
and this applies generally always choose
your subject before choosing your uni
it's so important
don't stress if you don't know what
degree you want to do yet there's loads
of information online when deciding
between Oxford and Cambridge check the
different courses for example for me I
wanted to do a broad science degree
Oxford owned your foot just chemistry or
just physics
whereas Cambridge I could do Natural
Sciences do physics chemistry and maths
in my first year and then specialise
when I decide more I want to go into
when choosing your a-levels think head
look online on the Oxford and Cambridge
sites water levels they require four
different degrees russell webb you knees
have published a list of facilitating
subjects which they recommend as
subjects to take if you want to make
competitive applications to top
universities i'll link it down below for
you to have a look at to increase your
chances are getting accepted it is good
to do at least two facilitating subjects
tip number two go to an open day at
Oxford and Cambridge or whichever one
you're interested in
Cambridge is not for everyone make sure
you like the feel of the town
make sure what they thought not of you
is perfect in terms of accommodation in
terms of the course in terms of welfare
it's really important that is perfect in
every way for you tip number three
Oxford and Cambridge really encouraged
super curricular activities these are
extracurricular activities that relate
to your subjects for example I did
chemistry enrichment sessions after
college on Wednesdays I wrote an essay
on fracking for an essay competition it
doesn't matter if you don't win a prize
I didn't hear anything back the skills I
learned from writing the essay doing
research on it you can write about all
this stuff in your personal statement I
did a trip to a university and had
experience using lab equipment which I
wrote about my personal statement
there are also enough field research
placements that you can do we do work
experience in the summer that's relevant
to a subject of course I'll link all
this down below as well
it can even be stuff you can easily do
at home you can watch a documentary if
you see on the TV a documentary in an
area that's later to your subject watch
that you might find something that
really interests you and you want to
look into further and this is gold for
personal statements I went to a lecture
on the Rosetta space mission because I
am interested in astrophysics and I
wrote about what I found out about the
chemical composition of the comments and
in that jazz it was very interesting I
actually enjoyed the lecture a lot hey
I've got my rosetta let to note so I
went to the lecture made mind maps so
I'd remember what they spoke about so we
recommend making notes when going to
lectures I know on YouTube there's
lectures by professors that you can
watch online there in a subject topics
that interest you
I'd recommend watching that there are
also Olympiads you can do as a maps
Olympiad I know in chemistry Olympiad
Balaji Olympiad physics Olympiad
I don't became rich chemistry challenge
in my AAS
here I did the maths Olympiad in my
second year I did one of the girls the
milk maths Olympiad the girls I think it
was in my first year shortly after I
started throw yourself into it doesn't
matter if you don't get the bronze award
gold award whatever does not matter just
need to make sure that you think about
what you gained from it you can't just
say to Oxbridge oh I've read this book
oh I've watched this documentary what
did you learn from the documentary what
did you gain from the documentary what
really interests you what do you want to
look in into further tip number
four is definitely read around your
subject
I read a materials science book called
stuff matters by Mark neo donek because
I was considering at the time doing
material science as part of the Natural
Sciences Triforce at Cambridge book was
really interesting I wrote about it in
my personal statement I specify the
chapter that really interested me about
aerogel it linked my interest in
astrophysics and you don't have to pay
for the books just go down your library
and there will be books around your
subject I went to the library borrowed
stuff matters for a few months cuz it
took me a while to get through it but
we'll forget about that I did have to
pay a few fines on that well it was on
the Cambridge suggested reading list but
Natural Sciences I'll link down below
something suggested reading list of
subjects
this is human universe by Brian Cox
which I am currently reading I'm a few
chapters in slowly working through it a
physics book that I'd recommend I read
over this summer after my application to
Cambridge but I wanted to keep up the
reading keep up my research into my
subject and make sure I didn't forget
everything over the summer so I read
seven brief lessons on physics by Carlo
Rovelli
I think you pronounced it it was really
good price of Lea thin so it wasn't too
hard going really well explained you've
got pictures in there you don't have to
be a PhD physicist to understand what's
going on in the book which is perfect
wasn't on the reading list but I really
enjoyed
and would recommend it and this is
another book which my granddad bought
for me it statistics that tears it's on
the Natural Sciences reading list it
actually intended for people taking the
biology module and not the full
mathematics Dajjal I think it's called
mathematical biology whereas I would
actually be taking mathematics so my
grind I didn't know this when he was
buying if I really appreciate it I'm
gonna read it anyway cuz I'm sure it's
coming really useful and I look forward
to starting that one any extra Reedy who
do about your subject is great it really
shows an interest in your subject a
passion for learning don't worry if you
don't want to read a whole book magazine
articles a fine this is blue site which
is the Cambridge science magazine
written by Cambridge students I believe
there was this article which I've read
in search of quantum gravity I don't
remember much about it not gonna lie but
I think I did find it interesting at the
time any science magazines doesn't have
to be this one there's lots about if you
find an article you like look up online
in your personal statement you can write
with you agree maybe with the author's
findings compare books you've read it's
all developing your thoughts about the
subject developing your understanding of
the subject which Oxbridge really like
tip number five is to attend a summer
school or master class from what looks
within Cambridge you can apply to them
there are lots of different subjects
I'll link them down below the Sutton
trust run summer schools at Cambridge
and other really good you knees around
the country they do favor people whose
parents have not gone to uni so if
that's you I'd definitely look into
their the same with Oxford you Nick
summer courses I know some people who
went on those and really enjoyed them I
went on a head start
II D T summer school at Cambridge during
material science it was really fun I did
have to pay for it as it wasn't the
whining participation one it was
actually a really rewarding course you
have to pay a few hundred pounds for it
it was run by the University you've got
to be careful some there
some companies who run some schools that
aren't actually part of the university
so look out for that and they'll charge
a little extra which you don't need to
be paying when you can get ones free my
summer school in material science was
really good I stayed at Churchill
College in Cambridge
I got FINA staying in the halls I went
to a few lectures by lecturers at
Cambridge one of my lecturers is
actually the admissions tutor at the
college I'm going to now know whether
that gave me an advantage or not that I
try to play on it anyway in my
application he gave us talk on the
summer school about admissions and what
he looks at so that was really helpful I
got to tour the college's really got a
feel of Cambridge and really knew that
it was going to be my first choice uni I
know Oxford and Cambridge also run
master classes I'll link some
information about that down below if
you're interested in lots of different
subjects tip number six write a killer
personal statement now I know that's
easier said than done I did about ten or
eleven drafts so make sure you pack it
with super curricular activities Knox
and Cambridge don't care about
extracurriculars they don't care if you
play a musical instrument they don't
care if you've done your Duke of
Edinburgh but other universities do care
so it's important to still put that in
your personal statement make sure it's
honest
make sure it's detailed make sure it's
factual write about the super curricular
activities you've been doing like I
mentioned earlier watching documentaries
attending guest lectures at universities
attending any summer schools you found
really interesting reading articles
online stuff you've seen in the news
extracurricular activities with your
school going on trips relating to a
subject relevant work experience put it
all in your personal statement packet
full Oxbridge like a really academic
personal statement I went to a talk from
an admissions tutor at the college I
applied to they said that they don't
look too much in a personal statement
because they have the interview that
they prefer to rely on and they don't
have so much need for the personal State
as other unions do and the propane
bridge the passive statement is not as
important as it is for other unions
however a great personal statement is
never going to hurt make sure you don't
include any cliche lines like ever since
I was born ever since I was in the room
I loved physics etc etc etc don't
name-drop don't look up fancy quotes
online unless it really really fits keep
your personal statement about you always
try and make it better keep trying to
improve it but there does come to a
point where you think can much more be
done to it I had to stop myself from
editing mine after a while I thought
that will do what I've got don't be
afraid to do lots of drafts it will be
rubbish to start off with but by the end
of the day you'll get a really good
personal statement make sure you do it
nice and early so you don't have to
panic as the early deadline approaches
tip number seven is to make sure you
prepare for the admissions test it will
be an early November I'll write down
below the exact date this year there's
lots of information about the admissions
tests for each subject online Cambridge
introduced admissions tests for most
subjects last year Oxford I know who had
them in place for quite a while I have
to do the Natural Sciences admissions
assessment I prepare for the Natural
Sciences one by doing the specimen paper
online I made sure to practice it under
timed conditions as the timing was
impossible I could not finish I what in
the actual thing I didn't finish I feel
like I did about two-thirds of the
section two of the paper the first
section for the Natural Sciences
admissions assessment is multiple-choice
section two is little answer questions
for the first section you choose which
sections do what to do depending on what
a levels you're doing the second section
you can take your pick out
of different subject choices for
chemistry physics and biology you
couldn't find more information on this
online don't be put down you find it
really hard is designed to be
challenging I know for a fact that I did
very badly in it but clearly everyone
else did so it's fine honestly off the
admissions assessment I thought damn it
I'm not even gonna get an interview this
sucks it was really hard but they're
expecting everyone to find it hard the
most important thing that I stress is
practice on the timed conditions you
need to work as fast as possible to get
through all the questions they are
throwing at you
tip number right once I don't know what
number we're up to tip number eight is
to relax about the interview they're
designed to be challenging don't spend
months preparing for it think about it
in the few weeks leading up to it do
some practice questions I know there's
online some sample questions of what
they may ask you I practiced with a old
student at my college you can always get
teacher to go through some practice
questions with you or ask the parent
throw some questions that you make sure
you know the syllabus of each subject
you take for ailable inside out for my
interview I was given massive problems
science problems I was given a sheet
paper talk to answer it just make sure
to think out loud and we will be fine I
will link some sample questions down
below tip number 10 please revise revise
revise there's no point getting an offer
is there just going to miss the grades
like who would do that variety of
subjects well Oxbridge require high
grades in your first year of sixth form
make sure you are doing lots of work
it's no good slacking on gearing
expecting predicted grades of 4a stars
three stars whatever you need to make
sure you work for it and then your
teachers will predict you what you
deserve I mean you can try bribing your
teachers I wouldn't recommend it and not
sure how well you get on there tip
number 11
I don't have enough fingers this be
optimistic you've got to believe in
yourself no one else is going to believe
you can do it if you don't the
admissions for Oxford and Cambridge is
supposed to be challenging don't feel
intimidated by it if you get worried
about it your performance at interview
in the admissions assessment it could be
affected by a negative mental attitude
you've got to think you can do it don't
be like me coming out the admissions
assessment going I'm not going to get an
interview don't be like me coming out
the interview going I'm not gonna get an
offer you're not psychic you have no
idea what's going to happen I thought
I'd miss my grades I had miss my grades
so sometimes you can be right but don't
try and predict the future be optimistic
my advice to everybody would be to aim
high you can do it if you put your mind
to it if you're unsure why the Oxford
and Cambridge is for you
you could always apply and then reject
them how great with that feel rejecting
Oxford or Cambridge would feel pretty
good so if you're unsure apply you can
always withdraw your application
don't let your background like going to
State School affect you I went to a
state school
I've got placed there it's not just for
private school students and more state
school people to apply and more states
good pupils would be accepted final tip
Oxbridge isn't for everyone they do make
mistakes people go on to get all a stars
at a-level and think offered a place
Oxbridge and you think what were they
thinking the course is not suited for
everyone the admissions tutors try their
best if you get rejected don't be
disheartened about it they make mistakes
at the end of the day and it's their
loss okay so that's about it I'll link
everything down below that I've
mentioned keep working hard and
hopefully I will see you in years to
come bye